---
layout: post
title: "Musings from the first week of Las Vegas plant operator trainings"
date: 2014-01-05
tags: [travel, honduras, AguaClara]
---

We have just finished the theory component of operator training in Las Vegas, Honduras. Five weeks of classes Tuesday through Friday. We have covered plant components, water systems, basic math and unit conversions. We’ve taken two field trips. And we’ve been building the flocculator baffles, plate settlers in the sedimentation tank, and piping for the filters. In the morning, we discuss the theory behind all the water treatment processes in the plant, and after lunch we fabricate the hydraulic components of those processes. Yesterday morning we were discussing the formation of the floc blanket in the sedimentation tanks, and in the afternoon we used heated oil and aluminum molds to form rectangular ends in 1.5” pipes for creating the planar jets that will suspend the floc blanket. During fabrication, we try to have a job for all 14 candidates, which sometimes becomes a managerial nightmare. Especially because my limited Spanish leaves me relying heavily on complex gesticulations to convey complex fabrication techniques. Below are some observations and moments over the course of the last five weeks of trainings.

The group of operator candidates for Las Vegas are fantastically enthusiastic, constantly asking questions and making jokes and eager to help one another. Oscar is the class clown… a short, fit 40 something year old who never resists telling a joke at the Gringos’ expense. Louie is a quiet industrial engineer who has lived in Las Vegas since his birth 35 years ago. Vincent, another eager learner, sits next to me every day so he can try out his English and I can work on my Spanish. Gordon spent 12 years working on a cruise, traveling around the world before coming back to Las Vegas to be with his family. He speaks wonderful English and has pictures of himself in Alaska, the Bahamas and India. Billy has one of the broadest and most reliable smiles I’ve ever seen, and Blaise’s calm attitude sails her through the toughest of unit conversions.